Dear listeners, in this case, viewers, let me introduce myself.
Zhubreva Tatyana Vasilyevna, candidate of the Technical Sciences,
a lecturer of the Russian Economic Academy named after Plekhanov.
The course that we will study today is called
methods of research in business.
Business is a very, very complex, unpredictable structure.
And in order to understand what methods and what needs to be studied,
we will analyze three aspects, three topics today.
The process of management research,
we will look at the principles, stages, approaches to conducting management research.
We will talk about qualitative and quantitative methods,
which are adopted in management research,
but we will focus on qualitative research.
Quantitative research will be told to you in an additional lecture.
And we will finish today's video course with questions of ethics.
Ethics of relations, ethics of conducting management research,
research in business,
because most researches, one way or another,
affect people working in organizations, companies, and so on.
It is very important to see how the rights of those who participate in research are observed,
and how to build your research in such a way that these rights are not violated.
In business, one way or another,
internal and external research is conducted almost daily and hourly.
Internal means inside your organization,
external means for third-party organizations,
when you are a consultant.
The conducted research requires recording of the obtained data,
making reports, analysis of the results,
and suggestions, recommendations, and so on.
In order to carry out this process correctly,
in order to get reliable, valid data,
it is necessary to understand very well what the research process is,
and what are the good skills that I will try to tell you,
if not to instill, at least to tell you,
what skills are inherent in good research.
And, of course, it is necessary to know about the key methods of conducting research.
What are the goals and tasks of this course?
First of all, we will talk about nature and the purpose of management research.
We will analyze the structure of management research,
what is its content.
The main attention will be paid to methodology and methods of conducting research,
as I said, with an emphasis on the methods of qualitative research.
The word qualitative is taken in quotation marks.
This does not mean that quantitative research can be called unqualified.
Qualitative means collecting data by informal methods.
The data that does not carry a numerical value.
And then ethical aspects of behavior.
What is management research, if we talk about its nature?
This is a methodical assessment of the functional zones of an organization.
What zones?
Marketing, finance, accounting and management of staff, and so on.
In each of these areas, many studies can be conducted.
What is this study for?
In order to identify strategically strong and weak sides.
The word strategically is important here.
Why?
Because only by working for the future can we move forward in conditions of a highly competitive environment.
Management research is aimed at helping to solve difficult situations,
and sometimes to take advantage of the opportunity that has suddenly opened up.
Because the problem, as we will see with you later, does not always mean something bad in your organization.
Very often this is an opportunity.
If we talk about what research in business and management is,
then we need to emphasize the following two aspects.
Research in business must be systematic.
What does it mean to be systematic?
This means not to rely on assumptions and guesses,
but only on logically identified interconnections and logical constructions.
What does it mean to be clear?
Research can only be recognized as research if it gives an increase in some knowledge.
In business, this is knowledge about the business itself and the management of this business.
In fact, there is no standard definition of what research is.
Nevertheless, a number of scientists say that research can be called a process that combines the following three aspects.
A method, personal or commercial benefit, and practical significance.
What does a method mean?
A method is a method by which people engaged in research combine the knowledge gained in different disciplines
and the experience gained in practice to conduct this research.
Commercial and personal benefit.
Unlike fundamental research, which we will talk about a little later,
research in business can only be undertaken when it is beneficial.
Is it beneficial for the manager personally, for the researcher personally,
or is it beneficial for the company or organization as a whole?
Practical significance.
It comes from above.
People are very busy in business.
They have no time to spend on research for the sake of research.
Only the research that will bring them a visible, real income,
a profitable business, an improvement in the company's situation,
a decrease in the flow of personnel, and so on.
Only this research will be recognized as practically significant.
And you, as a researcher, will be able to get permission for it.
And you will need permission because research is a costly event,
and it is costly not only in terms of money, but also in terms of time, emotions, and so on.
The concept of managerial research is the next aspect that we should consider.
Research is a process of setting a question and conducting an investigation.
The question may be different.
One question will be about a very narrow topic,
for example, why employees of one of the departments of the company are regularly late for work.
The problem may be very large.
Let's say the demand for the company's products has decreased.
The question arises, why has it decreased, and we need to deal with this issue.
Or maybe it will happen that one of the employees made a mistake,
but this mistake led to the discovery of new knowledge,
and a lot of new products and processes have been created based on mistakes.
Research should be systematic and methodical.
What does it mean to be systematic?
That is, the methods, approaches, and philosophy that you use should become one and whole,
and fully respond to the definition of the system as an economic category.
All elements should be interconnected, dependent, and should definitely have an integration effect.
Research should be methodical.
You should choose and prove the right methods based on the study of literature,
secondary sources of information,
and use them to get reliable results of your research.
The last aspect, which is indicated in the slide, is very important.
Research expands and multiplies knowledge.
Research that does not expand and multiply knowledge cannot be recognized as such,
at least in business.
What does it mean to multiply and expand knowledge?
Let's say you consider the motivation of the sales department employees to increase the volume of sales.
Is there a theory of motivation of such employees?
Yes, there is.
But this is a general theory.
It should be adapted to the people, to the situation that is directly in your company.
In this case, in business, you will multiply knowledge for your organization, for your management, and for your company.
And the last thesis.
Research expands and multiplies knowledge.
We have already talked a little about this.
Research should definitely multiply knowledge.
Knowledge for a specific organization, for a specific situation, for specific people.
Otherwise, the research is left as it is.
What are the goals of management research or other research, both in business and in academic sciences?
Review and generalization of existing knowledge.
This goal can have an independent meaning, but most often in fundamental sciences.
It is meant that the researcher studies the literature, secondary sources of information,
and forms an idea about the subject of study, about what was done before it,
and finds those holes, not joints in the literature they have studied, on which he can focus his attention.
But most often, since we are talking about research in business,
a review and generalization of existing knowledge is the first stage of any research.
Before starting your own research,
each researcher must make sure that he does not invent a bicycle,
but builds his research on the basis of already accumulated knowledge and practical experience.
The second goal is to study some existing problems and situations.
This is practically typical for any research.
To solve the problem, of course.
Otherwise, why do you need to do research?
Although the problem can be solved intuitively, and there are methods and approaches,
you will hear about this in other disciplines of management decisions,
but the intuitive approach has its weak points,
and the right intuitive solutions can be adopted by almost one person.
Research and analysis of general issues.
Yes, this can also be an independent research,
or it can be done within the framework of research in business.
Design or creation of a new process or a new system.
In the modern world, this is a very relevant goal for research,
because we live very, very fast,
and the creation of new products requires spending almost every day,
to be at least one step ahead of your competitors.
Explanation of a new phenomenon.
Of course, the phenomenological approach to the study of the situation is very important,
and a new phenomenon must be studied in order to be used in a profitable way.
Generating new knowledge.
This is typical for any research, to a greater or lesser extent.
As we have already said, in business, new knowledge usually belongs to the organization,
the company in which this knowledge was generated, and it is practically significant for it.
In fundamental sciences, the generation of new knowledge has a universal value.
And the last thesis is a combination of several of the above goals.
As a rule, this is most often found in business research.
That is, almost any researcher should start with a review and generalization of existing knowledge,
do research on the existing situation or solve the problem using analysis and synthesis
in order to generate new knowledge or explain a particular phenomenon,
a particular phenomenon that was discovered in his company.
But in order to conduct a research, you need a certain preparation and, of course, certain qualities are needed.
Let's start with persistence.
What does a researcher need to be persistent for?
First of all, in order to prove the necessity and usefulness of conducting a research,
to prove it to the direct supervisor, to prove it to the board of directors, and so on.
But persistence is also needed at the stage of conducting your own research,
because the research process is not a very simple action.
Very often, a researcher comes across problems already within the research.
Very often, he needs to give up the data he has received, he needs to go back again and again.
It may be a primitive example, but it is very similar to knitting a blouse, for example.
You have finished knitting the sleeve, and it turned out that the right one is shorter than the left one, and you need to dissolve it.
The same is true in research.
Very often, it is a return-to-request process.
And from here, of course, a researcher needs persistence to overcome all these difficulties, and so on.
As for motivation, here you need to note two main points.
You can motivate a person with a gingerbread, or you can motivate him with a punishment.
As a rule, motivating with a gingerbread is more common in the modern world.
Motivation can be expressed in the fact that the researcher is directly interested in the results of the research,
and that the data he has received will allow him to improve his position, and so on.
He can show himself to the management.
If the manager is interested in the results of the research, then the results can motivate the manager.
But very often, motivation is also associated with fear.
If you assume that you can lose your position as a manager, then you will conduct the research and collect data with all your attention.
There are also some underlying facts here, of course, that such motivation can lead to falsification of data,
which leads to the fact that the researcher is trying to match the results to what he assumes his direct customer would like to hear,
whom we call the owner of the problem.
If we go back to the early years of our Soviet life, we know that many of the most important discoveries that served the benefit of our country were made in fear of losing their lives.
I do not want to praise all the other personal qualities listed in the second table.
Of course, creativity is necessary, flexibility is very important for a researcher, but persistence and perseverance are very important components.
Moreover, there is an opinion that a creative person is not always persistent.
Now it's time to talk about the types of research that can be done, that is, to classify them.
Classification can be as much as you select the classification features.
In this case, we classify them according to the goals, process, logic of the research and the result of the research.
If we talk about the classification feature, the goals of the study are highlighted by the following types of research.
Studying, descriptive, analytical or explanatory, it is sometimes called, and prognostic.
If we talk about the process, then it is a qualitative or quantitative approach to collecting data.
If we talk about the logic of the process, then it is a deductive or inductive approach, that is, either a deductive approach from the general to the private,
or an inductive approach to collecting private facts in order to make a generalization or even create a theory.
As for the result, there are two types of research, applied and fundamental.
Applied research is the case that we are talking about, it is a business.
Fundamental research is, as a rule, academic science.
And then we will talk in detail about each of these types.
The study type.
As a rule, this research is undertaken at the initial stages of the study,
when the researcher has practically no or very little data on the subject, phenomenon, event, and so on.
The purpose of this research, as you can see, is the search for ways, ideas, and the promotion of hypotheses.
Here is an example of a situation when this type of research is needed.
There was a need to increase the motivation of employees, in this case, employees in the department,
with the subsequent increase in their productivity.
In fact, having conducted an interview with employees in the department or in the company,
it may be understood, what hypothesis can be expressed?
That the productivity of the labor can increase if, well, let's say, the office is re-planned.
What is a hypothesis?
We have met this word, and it is very important.
In Greek, it is the basis of assumptions.
But the hypothesis and the assumption are somewhat different from each other.
You have two definitions of the hypothesis.
The first is an assumption about the pattern of some phenomenon,
or an explanation option if there is a lack of information.
This is an assumption formulated for testing empirically, that is, by experience.
And the assumption is a statement about an idea that can be observed.
But when we make one or another assumption,
in principle, we do not claim to check this assumption.
The hypothesis in business research should only be promoted
which can be checked one way or another, by certain methods and methods.
The requirement for a hypothesis should take into account the known laws
and should not be adjusted to them in any way.
I have already voiced the second thesis.
The hypothesis should be principally verifiable.
What should be noted here?
Not all hypotheses can be verified at once, based on the knowledge of the researcher.
Therefore, hypotheses that cannot be verified at the moment should not be verified at once.
They should be put aside.
But they can be returned when new knowledge, new information,
new tools for checking this hypothesis appear.
And the hypothesis should, of course, be based on facts.
If you ask to give an example of a hypothesis,
most often the construction of a hypothesis is laid out in a formula.
What happens if?
If we increase the duration of the working day,
then most likely our young mothers will quit their jobs.
This hypothesis is formulated in a minor tone, in a negative meaning.
The practice of applying hypotheses, especially in Western business schools,
suggests that it is better to formulate hypotheses in a positive sense.
If we give mothers an opportunity to leave work an hour earlier,
without reducing their salary,
their productivity will certainly increase.
This does not mean that the hypothesis should always be in this construction.
The theory of hypotheses is quite large, it is described very well in the literature.
If this question interests you, you can ask this question in addition.
The next type of research is descriptive.
Already from this title it is clear that it describes some phenomena
in the way they exist.
It is used in cases when you need to give an additional characteristic
or get additional information on private issues or elements of the problem.
An example of the situation is described in the description of ways to encourage employees
and methods used to evaluate their performance.
If you compare it with the previous situation,
you will understand that this can be the next stage in the same research.
In the first case, you have found approaches, ideas, etc.
Here you describe ways to encourage existing in your organization
and what principles exist.
The next type of research is analytical or explanatory.
As already clear from the title, it aims to understand the phenomenon
that was described earlier.
It further reveals the causes of the relationship in this phenomenon.
An example of the situation is the analysis of the interdependence
on the encouragement of labor productivity.
We have already described them, now we need to analyze them.
Based on the analysis, it is possible to make a forecast.
The next type of research is forecast based on the analysis.
It aims to make a prediction, a forecast for the future.
It makes an assumption of how labor productivity will change
if the components of the compensation package of employees change.
If you put all the examples of the situation in one row,
you will see that they can be the stages of one big research.
In fact, the researcher can be limited to either the study
or the explanatory stage, or he can complete it.
Next, we talked about the classification sign of the process.
The process is characterized by quantitative and qualitative approaches
to conducting research.
Quantitative methods differ in that the researcher receives
some numerical information that can be statistically processed.
The questions of the research when conducting quantitative research
usually answer the question of how much.
How many additional employees do you need to hire
to be able to complete the work in time?
The characteristics of qualitative research are listed on the slide.
If we talk about quantitative methods,
we should answer that quantitative methods in business
are often based on surveys, surveys and structured interviews,
which we will talk about later.
The characteristic feature of quantitative methods is
that the analysis is separated from the data collection.
That is, first comes the data collection, and then the analysis.
You will have a separate lecture course on quantitative methods,
so I will not talk much about this topic.
Qualitative methods of research are based on understanding,
explanation and interpretation of empirical data.
They answer the questions of what, how and why.
What needs to be done to increase the productivity of labor?
Why is the percentage of absence of unemployment
so high in the first place?
There are many qualitative methods.
Among them are unstructured and semi-structured interviews,
group interviews, which we call focus groups,
different types of observations,
and even the use of a researcher as an object.
If we talk about the logic of the process,
deductive and inductive approaches are highlighted here.
Induction and deduction are equal opportunities
when conducting research in business.
When and how to choose the logic of research?
Induction is very often used in business.
What is it?
You have collected the facts and tried to make a generalization
based on these facts.
This is an inductive approach.
A deduction is when you look for evidence based on your theory.
Remember Sherlock Holmes, who used this deductive method.
Induction is very useful to check the hypotheses you built earlier.
The last one is the application and fundamental research.
I won't dwell on this too much.
I think you understand it.
I'll emphasize it again.
The application research is what a researcher does in business.
Fundamental research is not what a business does,
but it can be a sponsor of a fundamental research.
Then you can check whether the money was used for a purpose.
However, you can check it only after a few decades.
The first researches in the field of building seismic stability
are based on the theory of falling dominoes.
It was done by enthusiasts.
You probably saw how they put the dominoes on the edge one by one,
pushed one and everyone fell.
When we talk about data collection,
we should highlight two terms.
These are primary or field researches.
It is an independent collection of information
by any acceptable and justified method.
However, this method does not include data collected by someone else.
Secondary researches are what we talked about
when we talked about the goals of management researches.
It is to summarize the knowledge gained earlier.
Secondary researches are a review of literature,
published reports, and so on.
I should make a clarification here.
For Russian practice, this is a new trend
of highlighting primary and secondary researches.
Most often, we call it a literary review.
In Western practice, primary researches are an absolutely necessary component of any research.
Secondary researches are also necessary,
but they are separate from the literary review.
In Russian understanding, a literary review should consist of two parts.
A review of theory and a review of practice.
Secondary researches are a review of reports,
publications about previous researches,
data analysis of annual reports, articles,
articles of various conferences, and so on.
These are materials posted on the pages of magazines, websites,
and so on.
Sometimes, secondary researches can have an independent meaning.
And this will be called a cabinet research.
It is not always necessary to conduct researches within the organization.
But in order to prepare, for example, a proposal for a research,
or to make a market analysis,
or to find a niche in the market,
it is quite possible to conduct a cabinet research.
This is what is called a desk research in English.
But most often, secondary researches are a starting point for conducting your own research.
And now we have come close to the point of considering
what is the sequence of the research process.
It is shown on the slide.
There are seven stages,
but this does not mean that the researches should be conducted strictly in the order they are listed here.
Very often, researches can start from another stage.
Of course, you will not be able to make a data analysis earlier than you have already collected them.
But the topic of the research and the formulation of the problem
often have to be changed during the course of the research.
As new knowledge is revealed,
as additional information appears,
then everything has to be started from the beginning.
Here, persistence and perseverance are needed.
Nevertheless, you still need to start with the choice of the topic.
What are the principles of the choice of the topic?
First of all, the researcher must have the information
or have the ability to get this information from people who have the problem.
If a person does not have the information,
then it is almost impossible to formulate the topic of the research.
Or rather, it can be done,
but the research will then go into a deadlock.
It will not have practical significance.
The possession of information is a very important aspect
at the initial stage of the research.
And access to information is also a very important aspect.
Regardless of whether you work in a Russian company or in a company with a foreign management,
you have a certain level of access to information.
If you are trying to explore the area where you have no access,
then most likely your research will fail.
Unfortunately, there are cases when a researcher,
starting or only planning the research,
turns to the management,
putting it in the knowledge of the need to conduct the research,
and the researcher is limited in information.
There is a concept of a commercial secret,
which is not always used in a justified way.
Therefore, before you formulate the topic,
think about how realistic this topic will be for you to explore.
The next thesis is also very important.
The topic should be limited to one area of management.
In other words, the topic should not be very general.
One of the standard mistakes when choosing a topic,
a researcher's mistake,
is that he wants to plow a huge field,
to learn both this and that.
But, as a rule, such research is characterized as superficial,
because any research is spent on resources,
on time, financial or other aspects.
Therefore, it is advisable to conduct research in a narrow direction,
either in marketing or finance.
But this does not mean that you need to explore a multi-aspect area.
It is better to work on a narrow topic, but in depth and detail.
And the last thing to discuss is the thesis of the subject's feasibility.
The less feasible the topic is, the more difficult it will be to conduct research.
The most difficult research to conduct in areas such as satisfaction,
or the motivation of the consumers or employees,
the motivation of the sales staff, and so on.
Although this does not mean that you should not explore these topics,
but you should remember that it is difficult and calculate your strengths.
Now let's move on to the consideration of conceptual foundations.
First of all, let's talk about the formulation of problems.
In Greek, a problem is a barrier, a difficulty, a task.
That is, any uncertainty or contradiction that arose in the process of learning
and which cannot be eliminated within the framework of existing knowledge.
First of all, you need to determine what you need to establish,
what are the goals, tasks, what are the causes of the problems,
what problems and difficulties can be accompanied by the main problem, and so on.
There are three main categories of problems, corrective, progressive, and creative.
Corrective problems are the problems that we call a bad situation.
That is, you need to change something.
Let's say the productivity of labor has sharply decreased,
the sales of a product on the market have sharply decreased, and so on.
You need a certain corrective action, a managerial decision to solve this problem.
Progressive problems are those that can be called situations when, in general, nothing bad has happened yet,
but there is no progress.
Very often, such a category of problems arises at the stage,
if we talk about the stages of the life cycle of an organization or the stages of the life cycle of a product,
at the stage of maturity.
The product is sold well, and it has a lot of buyers, but the competitors do not sleep.
You need to undertake something to make a decisive step.
Therefore, we say that a situation has arisen that needs to be improved.
It is not bad, but it needs to be made even better.
And the creative problems are the creation of a new product, the creation of a new process.
And when we talk about creating a new product, it does not mean that you need to invent something completely new.
In the modern world, this is almost impossible, with very few exceptions.
In fact, we will not go into the theory of creating a new product.
Nevertheless, you can give the product some distinctive properties,
different from what the competitor offers, and create, offer something new.
This is if we talk about marketing.
But creative problems can arise not only in the field of marketing, but also in finance, management, and so on.
The main characteristics of problems.
First of all, we are talking about the essence or content of the problem.
This is a very difficult aspect.
You need to understand what the problem is.
And this is just at first glance.
Because very often the problem that is visible, the one that lies on the surface, is not really a problem,
but is only a consequence of deeper processes, deeper difficulties in the organization.
And therefore, at the stage of formulating the problem, a very good elaboration is needed.
Hypothesis, assumptions.
It must be taken into account that the study is necessary in order to make the correct formulation of the problem.
The next characteristic is the organizational and physical location of the problem.
This is a very important aspect.
To understand whether the problem is only a separate unit of the company, or is it a problem of the organization as a whole.
Is it a problem of the relationship between people, colleagues at work, or is it a problem of the relationship between subordinates and management?
Is this problem inside the organization, or is it caused by external influences?
The next aspect is the ownership of the problem.
Who is the owner of the problem?
As a rule, it is the manager.
It does not mean that it is a top manager.
The manager can be of the middle class, and so on.
That is, a person who is interested in solving this problem.
Who will get a certain benefit from the fact that this problem will be solved.
And has certain official powers to solve this problem.
The absolute relative value as a characteristic of the problem is quite simple.
Here you need to decide whether you need absolute numbers.
That is, let's say, measure how much time is spent by the employee unproductively.
By the way, the research conducted in the West showed that, for example, the work of a manager is often unproductive.
Or you will need relative values.
When you need to give the characteristics of people, the characteristics of the atmosphere in the team, let's say.
That is, those categories that cannot be expressed in numerical values.
And you need to give qualitative descriptive characteristics.
And the last thing that must be taken into account is the time perspective.
Any research is limited by the time resource.
Who releases this resource?
It can be circumstances.
It can be the management.
It can be the researcher's own capabilities.
And when considering the time perspective in the process of formulating a problem, you need to take into account the logic of the process you will be studying.
The practice shows that the deductive approach requires much more time to analyze the information already available.
This is a review of theories and a review of secondary sources of information.
But the research itself can be conducted in rather short periods.
While the inductive approach, due to the fact that there may be much less information on the problem being studied, takes less time.
But the collection of factual material can take a long time.
Especially if, returning to the organization of the problem, if this problem is not local, but a problem of a large company that has a large number of offices far from each other, and so on.
That is, when formulating a problem, you must think about how much time you have to solve this problem.
In addition, when we talk about the time perspective, we must also pay attention to such aspects.
That is, ask yourself questions.
How long has this problem been around?
How often does it happen in the organization?
How many people have already come to terms with this problem?
And so on.
And so much, because this is also very important for subsequent analysis.
Let's move on to the next aspects.
The reasons for the problem.
Since the problem will determine the entire further strategy of research and scientific research, it is necessary to determine what forces and factors cause this problem.
It should be borne in mind that the real causes of the problem may not be those that are visible on the surface.
It is imperative to conduct a study to examine, to sort out all the many factors that are somehow related to the problem.
A researcher can formulate a problem only when he or she literally feels, understands where the line between knowledge and ignorance about the subject of the study is.
Where did the imperceptible change that caused the situation occur?
A clearly formulated problem, a topic of research is a key to the success of the entire study.
Because if the starting point is chosen incorrectly, then the entire study can be taken almost in vain.
Why do we talk so much about the problem?
Because there are and are described many difficulties and problems in identifying them.
And the most important of them is the acceptance of symptoms for the problem.
Let's assume that the management encountered a problem of the absence of employees in May at their workplace.
Everyone has a hospitalization list.
In one year in May there are no employees at work, in another year in May there are no employees.
We can assume that the body is weakened, people are tired, want to go on vacation, and therefore are ill.
As one of the studies showed, the reason for this problem was that in May there were football championships in this city.
And the employees agreed who went to the hospital and who stayed to work.
But in order to identify this, an internal study had to be conducted.
This team was introduced by a secret internal observer who entered into trust and thus allowed to identify the cause of such a problem.
The next difficulty is a biased opinion about the causes of the problems.
A biased opinion and sometimes hasty solutions.
Very often researchers make a mistake when they talk about problems, but in fact they are talking about solutions.
Or they have a clear opinion that the cause of the problem is that.
Responsible managers often make mistakes.
Here, sometimes, there is a so-called Pareto law.
Being specialists in one thing, they consider themselves specialists in everything.
And very often the owner of the problem says, I know for sure that this is our problem.
And he does not want any research and does not listen to those who tell him, express another point of view.
The next problem is a view of the problem only from one technical point of view.
This is a common but not very common phenomenon.
Although, if this is the case, then it will cause a lot of problems in the future.
Because not taking into account the human factor, behavioral reactions, etc., this means to combine, and sometimes distort, the results of the study.
The next difficulty is ignoring how the problem is perceived in different parts of the organization, in different divisions, at different levels of management, in different regional branches, etc.
This is also a very well-described phenomenon, and we need to listen to it.
What does it mean that in different parts of the organization the problem can be perceived in different ways?
Let's say, in one department there is a purely female team, and in another purely male.
And to perceive the problem, let's say, the need to work overtime, of course, in these divisions will be perceived differently.
And this needs to be taken into account.
And the next aspect is a very important, unfinished diagnosis of the problem.
Unfortunately, it happens very, very often.
Having received some initial data, a hasty conclusion is made that these are the causes of the problem, let's get rid of them, and all this will end.
In your workbook, you have a very short version of an example of an unfinished, fortunately, happily completed problem, but at the initial stage, when the decision was made, this diagnosis was not completed.
If the solution to the problem was as it was initially seen, then this could certainly lead to complicating interpersonal relations in the team, or even to a strike at this enterprise.
And as it turned out, you probably have already read, it turned out not in people and not in their desire to sabotage the work, but in the fact that the metal that came for the blanks had other technical characteristics.
And people were completely innocent that they produced defective products.
When formulating a problem, you must take into account that some aspects can be associated with the problem.
First of all, you need to study the factors that can aggravate or soften the problem, but are not its direct causes.
Next, it is very important to understand that when solving one problem, other problems may arise. This is a very common situation.
Let's say you solved the problem of providing an extra day off for mothers with young children. Have you solved the problem? You have solved the problem.
And what other problems can arise in this regard? Discontent of those who may have elderly parents who also need time off, but they were not given such an opportunity.
That is, you must understand that the system is very multifaceted and make hypotheses, make predictions about what other problems may arise in connection with the decision-making and how to reduce their negative impact.
The next thesis also concerns the elimination of some difficulties, and new ones arise immediately. They are a little connected to each other, but these difficulties are not necessarily of a negative nature.
If we have solved the problem of product modernization, we have solved the difficulties. But what additional difficulties do we have?
It is quite possible that the buyer is not ready for this product, and we need to make additional efforts to explain to the buyer what the product has become better for him. And these are additional costs, additional resources.
There are many examples of this. If you look at your practical and even personal life, you will find many confirmations and examples.
And, accordingly, when you think about the formulation of the problem, you need to assess your ability, your organizational ability to solve this problem.
First of all, you need to look at the material and financial resources that you have, or that the customer, the owner of this problem, has.
The next aspect is that you need to assess your technical qualification. How much do you know about the methods that can be used to solve the problem?
Are there people who can help you solve this problem? The time factor, we have already talked about it, the time factor is very important, but I will not repeat myself, we have already talked a little about it.
The next aspect is new for us, it is the experience of organization in solving other problems. This experience can help the researcher to determine the solution to this existing problem.
If you have such experience, it is quite possible to make some analogies, to use the developments, the methods adapted for organization that will simplify the solution of the task.
The next aspect is that the ability to solve the problem is not in the order of importance, they are all important, but the attitude of the employees to the problem is very important.
The employees can treat this problem indifferently, which is not a problem for them, on the one hand.
On the other hand, employees can already get along with this problem so much that it is easier for them to live in this problem situation than to go through some changes that they will need to get used to.
Moreover, people often treat the investigation with distrust. The human psyche is such that if something is investigated, then no matter how bad it is, no matter how much someone has to be fired from work,
if it suddenly turns out that we can do this work not three of us, but together, and so on. This issue needs to be studied very well.
We have formulated the problem. What are the directions of further actions? And then you need to collect information, collect it carefully, systematically and unpretentiously.
All the collected information must be registered. What type of registration do you prefer? This will tell you about your research and your technical capabilities.
It can be recording, it can be audio recording, it can be video recording. But one way or another, all the information must be recorded in the most thorough way and preserved, I would say, not even until the end of the investigation, but for a long enough time after it.
Because very often there is a need to go back to the recordings, analyze them again, look at these results again. And as you collect information, you need to analyze it.
Especially when it comes to quality data analysis. We said that the analysis of quantitative data is usually done after the information has been collected, but not always.
Both qualitative and quantitative data must be analyzed as they are collected. For what? To understand whether you are going in the wrong direction in your research,
whether you need to make a right turn, or accelerate, or maybe stop this process altogether and express a new idea, formulate a new problem and move in a completely different direction.
And these data you have collected is what we call the data of the initial investigation. As we said before.
I would like to draw your attention to the fact that all the data must be collected thoroughly, it must be systematized as it is collected, and your attitude towards the investigation must be unbiased.
You must be free from the influence of people involved in the investigation, events that accompany your research, and so on.
At the end of this topic, we will look at what an object is and what a subject of research is. An object is what the subject of research is focused on.
It is very important that the object may be one, and there may be several subjects for research. The subject of research is always within the field of research, within its boundaries, within a certain aspect of the study.
To make it clear, I will give you a very simple and accessible example. Let's say you have a research question.
Have the apples ripened? What will be the subject and what will be the field of research? It depends on the specific point of the problem.
If you want to know whether the apples have ripened on a specific apple tree, let's say, in Antonovka, then the object of research will be an apple tree, and the subject of research will be a specific apple on this tree.
If you are interested in whether the apples have ripened in a garden, then the object of research will be a fruit garden, an apple garden, and the subject of research will be a separate tree, an apple tree.
In both cases, you will need to make a choice. In the first case, the general combination will be all the apples on the tree in Antonovka. In the second case, the general combination will be all the trees in the garden.
Returning to the apple tree, you cannot bite every apple on the tree. You will most likely try one apple from the south, one from the north, one from the top, one from the bottom branches, and then you will be able to make a conclusion.
Has Antonovka ripened on this tree? In the case of a garden, you will need to choose the trees on which you will actually check. And based on the check of the ripeness of the apples on the separate trees, you will conclude that the apples in the garden have ripened.
But if not only apples grow in your garden, but also other fruit trees, then there will be several subjects for research in the garden. You will check whether the apples, pears, plums, and so on have ripened.
Sorry for the simplification, but this is a fairly obvious example. Let's move on to more serious things. An example from a practically protected dissertation.
The topic of the dissertation is presented on the slide. The concept of teleworking as a new form of staff management. What is teleworking? This is the work of an employee at home.
Let's not say at home, he can work anywhere, but the main thing is that he does not need to come to the office. The principles of teleworking are well described. If someone is interested, this is a form of organization of work, especially I turn to employers.
This greatly saves company resources, but there are also certain difficulties in managing such people.
As part of this dissertation, the subject of research was the organization of virtual labor in Russia. For Russia, this is not yet a very characteristic phenomenon. And the existing staff management systems in such organizations.
The subject of the dissertation was the phenomenon of teleworking as a form of employment and as a new form of staff management.
This is a choice of the philosophy of research. We said that we can have different approaches, inductive and deductive, but we have not yet talked about philosophy.
The dissertation highlights two types of philosophical approaches to research. This can be positivism, which can be adequately characterized by the quote given above. The social world exists externally, and its properties must be measured by objective measures.
And as an antithesis, this is phenomenology, a philosophical approach. It fits very well with our topic of research in business. The world and reality are not objective and do not exist externally. They are socially organized and people make sense of them.
We say that every situation is unique. A researcher, being in the same business environment as his colleagues, is free to influence people, events, circumstances, etc.
From the point of view of positivism, from the point of view of phenomenology, the data collection structure can be quantitative and qualitative.
The following slide shows examples of qualitative positivism. This is a medical diagnosis. What does a doctor do when you come to him for the first time?
First, he asks you to tell him what you feel. You don't bet, do you? Although, they do. A man I know comes to the doctor and says, I have a heartache, I have tachycardia. And the doctor says, first tell me what you feel, and then I will diagnose you.
In this case, the doctor acts as a positivist, a positivist researcher. Why? Because he is completely independent of the patient. It is quite possible that this is why doctors, with very rare exceptions, choose to treat their loved ones.
Quantitative positivism is not only a collection of financial results. We can make a quantitative diagnosis in medicine, see how much hemoglobin is in the blood, how much cholesterol is in it, etc.
For business, of course, both quantitative and qualitative phenomenology are more typical. Quantitative phenomenology is surveys, surveys with different purposes.
Qualitative phenomenology is various types of interviews, focus groups, comparisons, etc.
Now we need to decide on methods of organization of research. We have already discussed all of this with you, so we will just emphasize the topic of research.
Depending on the amount of information on this problem, if you have a lot of sources of literature, the problem is well described, it is quite possible that you will choose a deductive approach to the organization of your research and will look for the points that are characteristic of your organization.
If there is very little information on the problem you are studying, there is practically no secondary data, then you will probably have to conduct an inductive study, that is, to collect a lot of factors, identify the interconnections and make a generalization.
The second aspect is the amount of time to conduct the study. We have already discussed this with you.
A deductive study takes a lot of time to analyze the literature and secondary sources of information, but a field study can be conducted in rather short periods.
And the opposite situation with the inductive study. When we talk about the inductive method of organization, we need to remember that the collection of information can take a lot of time, and the information obtained can lead you to the idea that you need to go another way or start all over again.
Therefore, you need to think very carefully. But I emphasize once again, for research in business, for a researcher, we most often accept the inductive method.
The only thing to note when we talk about the inductive and deductive methods is that they are mutually exclusive.
That is, if you follow the deductive method, you cannot both build a theory and test it. But there is a very good but.
Since any research is divided into separate stages, it is very important that the separate stages can be built on different approaches.
That is, at one stage you take the inductive approach, and at another stage you take the deductive approach. And then it will be a mutually exclusive method.
And the last thesis. The leader for whom the research is conducted.
The phrase has already been said that the leaders prefer the deductive method, because it is more familiar to them.
If you consider it necessary to conduct an inductive research, you will certainly need to make a kind of justification for your approach and explain to the leader that this is the most rational way of organizing the research.
And the last thing we will focus on is the strategy and tactics of conducting the research.
And in order not to talk for a long time, first of all, we will note the difference in the terms of strategy and tactics.
Strategy is a general approach that the researcher takes as a program of his actions. There can be many such strategies.
You have listed them. This is an experiment, a survey, a study of a practical situation, what is often called a case study.
This can be a theory of a justified strategy, a justified theory, and so on.
Tactics is a set of methods of collecting information that the researcher uses to collect and analyze primary data.
We will move on to the second topic of the review of the methods that are most often used in business research.
But first, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that at the end of the first topic you have a task for self-checking.
And in order to consolidate the information that may not yet have become knowledge, to work out these tasks and to look, maybe, to analyze the situation from your own practical life.
I am more than sure that you have already taken part in conducting research, maybe even without thinking about it.
Try to reflect on the research you have conducted and apply the theoretical positions that I have told you about to the practice that you already have.
Thank you. And we move on to the second topic.